# Solution1: Sliding window (Initial thoughts without code structure optimization)

My initial thoughts to the question is that: since the question asks for the maximum number of contiguous `1`s with a given number of flips, this range must include the starting and ending point of this range, which is decided by both the number of changes we can make, i.e. `K`, and the last `1` we can get within this range. Thus a sliding window algorithm would be suitable for solving it, in which we would move the start and end positions based on specific conditions and count the number of changes we have made and the number of consecutive `1`s we have got. In a nut shell, the moving strategy we use is: we first try to extend the `end` position as far as possible,  including more `1`s or flipping `0` to `1` while there are still some number of changes we could make left. Once we cannot extend the `end` anymore, we would try to shrink the range by moving `start` forward, until the `start` reaches  `end` or encounters a change we previously made. In the later case we would try to flip it back and move end with one change left in hand again. 

Specifically, the conditions, before the end position reaching end of the array `A`, we could have are:  
1. Next position after `end` is `1`. In this case we would just move end forward by one position and increase the current count of contiguous `1`s by one.   
2. Next position after `end` is `0` but we still have changes we can make in left. In this case we change the `0` to `1`, mark it has been changed, increase the current count and move `end` forward.   
3. Next position after `end` is `0` and we cannot change any `0` anymore. In this case the possible maximum number of `1` need to be updated such that the maximum of current number of `1`s and maximum of previous `1`s we have are compared and the greater one is kept. Next we will try to move `start` forward until `start` reaches `end` or `start` reaches a previously flipped `0`. Hence there are two sub-cases included in this condition:   
    1. `start` reaches a position we changed before (in this case `start == end` is also possible). In this case we change it back to `0`, add back one change opportunity in our hand, and deducting the corresponding of consecutive `1`s we removed from the range during sliding `start` forward. Then we can start trying to move `end` forward again.   
    2. `start` reaches `end` without encountering any changes made before. If `start` reaches `end` without find any changes previously happened, that means `K=0`. Since both `start` and `end` are now `0` (based on the previous if branch conditions), we just move both `start` and `end` forward by one position and start the process. Under this condition we are essentially looking for the number of contiguous `1`s in the original array `A`. 
    
After the iteration ends, we still need to update the maximum one more time since if the last number in the array `A` is `1` then the iteration is ended without compare the last "current number of `1`s we have".

## Time complexity

Both `start` and `end` could move from the first to the last position of `A`. So the algorithm could run as long as `O(A.length)`.  

## Space complexity

An boolean array of length `A.length` is used for storing the positions that have been changed. Thus space complexity is `O(A.length)`.  

```Java
class Solution {
    public int longestOnes(int[] A, int K) {
        int max = 0;
        int curr = 0;
        int start = 0;
        int end = 0;
        int flipCount = 0;
        boolean[] flipped = new boolean[A.length];
        while (end < A.length) {
            if (A[end] == 1) {
                end++;
                curr++;
            } else if (A[end] == 0 && flipCount < K) {
                flipCount++;
                flipped[end] = true;
                end++;
                curr++;
            } else { //A[end] == 0 && flipCount == K
                max = Math.max(curr, max);
                while (start < end && !flipped[start]) {
                    start++;
                    curr--;
                }
                if (flipped[start]) {
                    flipCount--;
                    flipped[start] = false;
                    start++;
                    curr--;
                } else { //start == end
                    end++;
                    start++;
                }
            }
        }
        
        max = Math.max(curr, max);
        
        return max;
    }
}
```

# Solution 2: Sliding window (Optimized code structure)  

Considering about the Best Conceivable Time for this question, since we need to go through array `A` at least once, the runtime is at least `O(n)`. Hence we cannot optimize runtime anymore. But the code structure and the space complexity could be potentially optimized since we have some redundant logic and memory used. The `flipped` array we used are useless considering we can directly get if a position has been changed or not with checking if the value is 0 or not. Meanwhile, the logic can be simplified to:

1. As long as we got less than or equal to `K` `0`s in our current range, move `end` forward (since the longest sequence is always generated with using up all the changes).   
2. As long as we got greater than `K` `0`s in our current range, move `start` forward until the current number of `0`s in our range is less than or equal to `K` (i.e. Actually equal to `K`).  

At each time we stops, our range contains exactly `K` `0`s and thus is the longest possible subsequence we can get. Then we update the current local maximum. 

## Time complexity

`O(A.length)`

## Space complexity

`O(1)`

```Java
class Solution {
    public int longestOnes(int[] A, int K) {
        int start = 0, end = 0, zeroCount = 0, res = 0;
        
        for (; end < A.length; end++) {
            if (A[end] == 0) zeroCount++;
            while (zeroCount > K) {
                if (A[start++] == 0) zeroCount--;
            }
            
            res = Math.max(res, end - start + 1);
        }
        
        return res;
    }
}
```

# Solution3: Sliding window with fixed largest possible window size

Actually we do not need to update the local maximum length each time. Just fix the window size once it reaches the largest possible value until we found next greater window size with `K` `0`s in it. 

```Java
class Solution {
    public int longestOnes(int[] A, int K) {
        int start = 0, end = 0;
        for (; end < A.length; end++) {
            if (A[end] == 0) K--;
            if (K < 0 && A[start++] == 0) K++;
        }
        
        return end - start;
    }
}
```
