
# Solution1: Simulate the moving process

If there exists a circle in the plane such that the robot never leaves the circle, then after some round of movement, the robot must go back to the intiial position (the trajectory fo the robot is bounded). Otherwise the trajectory of the robot will be boundless. 

So in order to simulate the movement of the robot, we need to figure what is the least number of repetition needed for the input movement sequence for any input movement to go back to `(0, 0)` is possible. 

We would first divide the movement of the robot into 2 dimensions: direction movement and coordinate movement. 

For direction movement, say the robot changed direction for `x` degrees to the right where `x` can be 0˚, 90˚, 180˚, 270˚. Then after at most 4 cycles the robot would always face north, because `(x*4)%4=0`.  

For coordinate movement, map the movement of the robot for one cycle to a vector in the plan. Assume the robot moves `∆x` and `∆y` at the end of the cycle in x axis and y axis respectively, then given initial point `(x,y)`, the robot would stop at `(x+∆x,y+∆y)` at the end. In order to guarantee the returning to the start point (if possible), we need at most 4 cycles as well. The conditions can be divided as following:  
1. The robot changes 0˚ after a cycle. Then the robot would never go back to start point and the trajectory is boundless.  
2. The robot changes 90˚ after a cycle. Then after 4 cycles the coordinate of the robot would be the start point:  
   `(x+∆x+∆y-∆y-∆x,y+∆y-∆x-∆y+∆x)=(x,y)`.  
3. The robot changes 180˚ after a cycle. Then after 2 cycles the coordinate of the robot would be at the start point:  
   `(x+∆x-∆x,y+∆y-∆y)=(x,y)`.  
4. The robot changes 270˚ after a cycle. Then after cycles the coordinate of the robot would be at the start point:  
   `(x+∆x-∆y-∆x+∆y,y+∆y-∆x-∆y+∆x)=(x,y)`  
   
Hence, we can see that except for the cases which the trajectory does not bound, after at most 4 cycles the robot is guaranteed to face north and return to start point. 

Then we have the following solution.  

```java
class Solution {
    int[][] nextSteps = new int[][]{
        new int[]{0, 1}, // G heading North
        new int[]{1, 0}, // G heading East
        new int[]{0, -1}, // G heading South
        new int[]{-1, 0} // G heading West
    };
    // dir map: {'N':0, 'E':1, 'S':2, 'W':3};
    
    public boolean isRobotBounded(String instructions) {
        if (instructions == null || instructions.length() == 0) return true;
        
        instructions = instructions + instructions + instructions + instructions;
        int[] currPos = new int[]{0, 0};
        int dir = 0;
        for (char step : instructions.toCharArray()) {
            dir = move(currPos, step, dir);
        }
        
        if (currPos[0] == 0 && currPos[1] == 0) {
            return true;
        } else {
            return false;
        }
    }
    
    private int move(int[] currPos, char step, int dir) {
        switch (step) {
            case 'G':
                currPos[0] += nextSteps[dir][0];
                currPos[1] += nextSteps[dir][1];
                break;
            case 'L':
                dir = (dir + 3) % 4;
                break;
            case 'R':
                dir = (dir + 1) % 4;
                break;
        }
        
        return dir;
    }
}
```

## Time complexity

`O(4*n)=O(n)` where `n` is the length of the input String instructions. 

## Space complexity

`O(1)`

# Solution2: One pass solution

```java

```
