# Solution1: Bruteforce

A bruteforce solution for this question would be to simulate the process of flipping columns using backtracking. 

However, this apporoach is too slow, since it has to check `2^n` possible ways for flipping, and each flip action takes `O(n)` time, while checking for rows that have all values equal takes `O(m)` time. Here `m` and `n` refers to the number of rows and columns respectively. Hence the run time of this algorithm should be `O(2^n * (m + n)` in the worst case.  

# Solution2: Count symmetric rows

However, notice that we are essentially looking for 2 kinds of rows after flipping, that is, all `0` rows and all `1` rows. 

Assume there are two rows become all `0` rowss or all `1` rows after the flipping some columns, then the two rows need to be:  
1. They are the same before the flipping, e.g. `[[0,0,1,0,0],[0,0,1,0,0]]`.  
2. They are one's complement for each other before the flipping e.g. `[0,0,1,0,0],[1,1,0,1,1]]`.

Only in the above two situation will the rows become all `0` or all `1` rows after flipping the same columns. Hence we could easily looking for the rows that are the same or one's complement for each other before the flipping. And the maximum number of rows that aligns with this rule are the number of rows that have all equal values after flipping some columns. 

## Time complexity

`O(m*(m^2+n))` in which `m` and `n` are the number of rows and columns in the `matrix` respectively.  

## Space complexity

`O(n)` in which `n` is the number of columns in the `matrix`.  

```java
class Solution {
    public int maxEqualRowsAfterFlips(int[][] matrix) {
        int ret = 0;
        int m = matrix.length, n = matrix[0].length;
        int[] flipped = new int[n];
        for (int i = 0; i < m; i++) {
            int count = 0;
            for (int j = 0; j < n; j++) {
                 flipped[j] = 1 - matrix[i][j];
            }
            for (int j = 0; j < m; j++) {
                if (Arrays.equals(matrix[i], matrix[j]) || Arrays.equals(matrix[j], flipped)) {
                    count++;
                }
            }
            ret = Math.max(ret, count);
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
}
```
