# Solution1: BackTracking

This question asks for partitioning String `s` such that all substrings of `s` are palindrome.  

In general, we can view this question as a recursion problem, that is `T(s) = T(s-1) + T(s-2) + T(s-3) + T(s-4) + ... + T(1)`. This led us to a backtracking solution, in which we try each subproblem, and its sub-subproblem, etc. Not that we only check the subproblem when the current substring we sliced out is a valid palindrome. And once we reached to the end of the `s`, we know that this is a solution since every previous sliced substrings we got is already a palindrome. See the following algorithm description:

1. Set the start index to `0`, current input string as `s`, and keep a empty `List<String>` to store current partitions.  
2. For every `index` from `start + 1` to the end of current input string, sliced out the substring from the beginning of the current input string to `index` and check if current sliced substring is a valid palindrome.  
    1. If the sliced substring is a valid palindrome, add it to the currenr partition list and check the subproblem where the string we need to consider is the remaining substring of the input string following the sliced substring.  
    2. If the slided substring is not a valid palindrome, simply move the index forward.  
3. If the `start` reached the end of `s`, we know that we've found a list of partitions constituted by palindromes. And we should copy this list over to the `List<List<String>>` used for stroing results.   
4. Once the recursion call to a subproblem ends, we remove the newly added substring from the current list of partitions and begin another checking by increasing `index` by 1.  

Time complexity:  
We have the following 2 equations  
`T(s) = T(s-1) + T(s-2) + T(s-3) + ... + T(1)`  
`T(s+1) = T(s) + T(s-1) + ... + T(1)`  
==> `T(s+1) = 2T(s)`  
Hence the total time complexity is roughly `O(2^(s.length-1))`  

Another prove is that the way we can split `s` in to substrings is `2^(n-1)`. The reason is that there are `s.length` characters in the string, which means that there are `s.length-1` positions we can split. And for each position, we can either split or not. Hence it's a total of `2^(s.length-1)` possibilities.  

```Java
class Solution {
    public List<List<String>> partition(String s) {
        List<List<String>> ret = new ArrayList<List<String>>();
        if (s == null || s.isEmpty()) return ret;
        
        backTrack(s, 0, new ArrayList<String>(), ret);
        return ret;
    }
    
    private void backTrack(String s, int start, List<String> currList, List<List<String>> ret) {
        if (!currList.isEmpty() && start == s.length()) {
            List<String> tmpRet = new ArrayList<>(currList);
            ret.add(tmpRet);
        }
        for (int i = start + 1; i <= s.length(); i++) {
            if (isPalindrome(s.substring(start, i))) {
                currList.add(s.substring(start, i));
                backTrack(s, i, currList, ret);
                currList.remove(currList.size() - 1);
            }
        }
    }
    
    private boolean isPalindrome(String s) {
        int start = 0;
        int end = s.length() - 1;
        char[] chs = s.toCharArray();
        while (start <= end) {
            if (chs[start] != chs[end]) return false;
            start++;
            end--;
        }
        return true;
    }
}
```
