# Solution1: Recursion DFS

In order to get the minimum amount of health we need to arrive at the bottom right corner of the dungeon, we need to do a bottom up check of the bnoard, similar to a DFS. For a given position `(x, y)` in the board, the sub-conditions are:  
1. If `(x, y)` is the bottom right corner of the board, then we are at the destination. We need to have a minimum of 1 health.  
2. If `(x, y)` is not the destination, then the next position could be `(x + 1, y)` or `(x, y + 1)`. We need to recursively get the minimum health needed for next two positions. Then take the minimum out of the two as the basic minimum amount of health needed after leaving current spot.  
3. Once we have the minimum, we need to take into account the threats of power-ups of the current spot. 
  1. if the current spot contains a power-up that gives more health than needed by the minimum, then we only need to have 1 health when reached to this point, so we return `1` to its parent level.  
  2. otherwise, there are two conditions as well. One is that the current spot contains a power-up, then we only need a health value of `minimum - powerup` at its parent level. The other one is that the current spot contains a threat, then we need a health value of `minimum + Math.absolute(threat) = minimum - thrests`. So in both cases, we need a health value of `minimum - dungeon[x][y]` apon arrival to the current spot. So either way we return `minimum - dungeon[x][y]` to the parent level.  
  
Then the root call to the recursion function is the minimum amount of health we needed. 

Meanwhile, in the process we can use a memorization to remember the intermediate, saving us some time, since we are constantly checking the result for a given spot `(x, y)`. Hence we use a two dimensional array `mem[][]` to store the intermediate results of the recursion calls. 

## Time complexity

`O(m * n)` with memorization. `O(2 * (m + n) * (m + n))` without memorization since there are `2 * (m + n)` possible ways to the destination, and each path is of length `(m + n)`. `m` and `n` are the number of rows and columns of the input board. 

## Space complexity 

`O(m * n)` with memorization, `O(1) without it. 

```java
class Solution {
    public int calculateMinimumHP(int[][] dungeon) {
        if (dungeon == null || dungeon.length == 0 || dungeon[0] == null || dungeon[0].length == 0) return -1;
        int m = dungeon.length, n = dungeon[0].length;
        int[][] mem = new int[m][n];
        return helper(dungeon, mem, 0, 0);
    }
    
    private int helper(int[][] dungeon, int [][] mem, int x, int y) {
        if (x >= dungeon.length || y >= dungeon[0].length) return Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        if (mem[x][y] > 0) return mem[x][y];
        int health = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        health = Math.min(health, helper(dungeon, mem, x + 1, y));
        health = Math.min(health, helper(dungeon, mem, x, y + 1));
        
        // need to have at least 1 health point when at the final destination
        if (x == dungeon.length - 1&& y == dungeon[0].length - 1) health = 1;
        int ret = health <= dungeon[x][y] ? 1 : (health - dungeon[x][y]);
        mem[x][y] = ret;
        return ret;
    }
} 
```
