# Solution1: Sorting the combinations

Since this question asks for the largest number that can be constructed using a sequence of input numbers, at a very first glance, there seems to be some comparison mechanism that can be used to determine the relative order of the input numbers. I mean, "the largest number", sounds like a sorting and comparison problem after all!

However, in this question, in order to determine the relative order of two numbers out of the input array, we are facing this problem: In a normal comparison-based soring algorithm, we only need to consider each numbers solely when do the comparison between 2 numbers. E.g. 32 is always greater then 31. But, in this question, this is no longer true anymore. In this question, we are looking for the relative order of two numbers such that when we combine them together in a string concatenation manner they form a greater number then the other way around. __For example, when comparing 824 and 8247, we should put 824 in front of 8247 since 8248247 is greater than 8247824.__ From this example, we can see that in this comparison, we need to consume information from both numbers and their relative order when doing the comparison. 

As a result, the custom comparator we are looking for is obvious:   
1. For any two numbers n1 and n2, we first get the String representation of them as `s1 = String.valueOf(n1), s2 = String.valueOf(n2)`  
2. Then we compare between `s1 + s2` and `s2 + s1`.  
    - if `s1 + s2 > s2 + s1`, we should put `n1` in front of `n2` in the sorted array, hence the comparator should return `-1` based on Java's comparison logic.  
    - similarly, if `s1 + s2 < s2 + s1`, the comparator returns 1.  
    - finally, if `s1 + s2 == s2 + s1`, the comparator returns 0.  
    
There is only 1 edge case here, though. If all numbers are `0` in the input array, then the result should be `0` rather than `0000....`. 

## Time complexity

`O(c * nlogn)`. Here, `n` refers to the length of the input array, `c` refers to the constant time needed for each comparison done by the custom comparator since string concatenation and number comparison is included. 

## Space complexity

`O(n)` for the extra string array and StringBuilder. 

```java
class Solution {
    public static final String EMPTY = "";
    public String largestNumber(int[] nums) {
        if (nums == null || nums.length == 0) return EMPTY;
        
        String[] numsStr = new String[nums.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            numsStr[i] = String.valueOf(nums[i]);
        }
        
        Arrays.sort(numsStr, (String a, String b) -> {
            return Long.compare(Long.valueOf(b + a), Long.valueOf(a + b));
        });
        
        if (numsStr[0].equals("0")) return "0";
        StringBuilder sb = new StringBuilder();
        for (int i = 0; i < numsStr.length; i++) {
            sb.append(numsStr[i]);
        }
        return sb.toString();
    }
}
```
