# Solution1: Greedy search based on end time

If we want to know how many meeting rooms we need, we must know how many meetings are happened with overlapping time slot. This can be done by checking the start time and end time of 2 meetings. In this way, we need to keep some status for the end time of currently used meeting rooms. Since we always only want the meeting room whose meeting ends earliest (greedily pick the room that is released foremost), we could use a minimum heap to keep all the end time of the meetings. 

Each time we want to set up a new meeting (take one interval out from sorted `intervals[]`, we just check if there is any meeting room with a finishing time earlier than the start time of a meeting. If no, we open a new meeting room and put the end time into the minimum heap. If yes, use that room and update the end time. 

We have to also sort the input array based on start time in order to make the look up chronologically. 

`O(nlogn)` time, `O(n)` space. `n` is the length of `intervals[]`. 

```Java
/**
 * Definition for an interval.
 * public class Interval {
 *     int start;
 *     int end;
 *     Interval() { start = 0; end = 0; }
 *     Interval(int s, int e) { start = s; end = e; }
 * }
 */
public class Solution {
    public int minMeetingRooms(Interval[] intervals) {
        if (intervals == null || intervals.length == 0) return 0;
        
        int count = 0;
        Arrays.sort(intervals, new Comparator<Interval>() {
            @Override
            public int compare(Interval i1, Interval i2) {
                return i1.start - i2.start;
            }
        });
        Queue<Integer> minHeap = new PriorityQueue<>();
        for (int i = 0; i < intervals.length; i++) {
            if (minHeap.isEmpty() || intervals[i].start < minHeap.peek()) {
                count++;
            } else {
                minHeap.poll();
            }
            minHeap.add(intervals[i].end);
        }
        
        return count;
    }
}
```

# Solution2: Chronological ordering

So there are 2 kinds of events for a interval: `start` and `end`. And there are 3 facts we need to keep in mind:
1. The meeting intervals, in its nature, will happen chronologically.  
2. The start time of a meeting is always less than its end time. That is to say, when there is a end event we met, there must be a start event corresponding to this meeting happened already, chronologically.  
3. Meetings that started before any existing meeting ends must be put in a new meeting room. But a meeting that start when there exists another meeting ends before its starting could reuse the same meeting room.  

Hence, we sort the start times and end times, respectively. Then we use 2 pointers to traverse the 2 sequence. Note that we don'e worry about start-end mismatching because start time of the same meeting is always before its end time. 

Then during our iterating of the 2 sequence, we compare the current `start` and current `end` we got. Whenever there is a start meeting on our hand, we need a room, either a new one or an existing one. So we compare this start the current end. If `start < end`, we know we have to open a new meeting room. In this case we move start forward but not move end because this meeting is not finished yet. Otherwise, there is a finished meeting, we can reuse its room. Then we move both start and end index forward to check for next starting meeting with the next ending meeting. 

## Time complexity

`O(2*(nlogn)) = O(nlogn)`

## Space complexity

`O(2n) = O(n)`

```Java
public class Solution {
    public int minMeetingRooms(Interval[] intervals) {
        if (intervals == null || intervals.length == 0) return 0;
        
        int count = 0;
        int[] starts = new int[intervals.length];
        int[] ends = new int[intervals.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < intervals.length; i++) {
            starts[i] = intervals[i].start;
            ends[i] = intervals[i].end;
        }
        
        Arrays.sort(starts);
        Arrays.sort(ends);
        
        int endIndex = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < starts.length; i++) {
            if (starts[i] < ends[endIndex]) {
                count++;
            } else {
                endIndex++;
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
}
```
