# Solution1: Binary Search

To solve this question, we need to first fully understand what is a __h-index__. 

Based on the [definition of h-index on Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H-index): "A scientist has index h if h of his/her N papers have at least h citations each, and the other N − h papers have no more than h citations each.".  

Hence we can further infer the following conditions of the __h-index__.  
Given there are `k` papers of an author being cited for more than `s` times (include `s`), 
1. If `k>s`, based on the this condition, the current h-index we can get is `s`, and there might exists an h-index greater than `s`. Thu we keep looking for a greater h-index.   
2. If `k<s`, the current h-index we can get is `k`, and there might exists and h-index greater than `k`. We keep looking for a greater h-index.  
3. If `k==s`, the current h-index we get is `k`, or `s`, and we are sure that this is the greatest h-index we can get. The reasoning is that: 
  1. If we increase `k`, then `s` will be smaller and we goes to condition 1.  
  2. If we increast `s`, then `k` will be smaller and we goes to condition 2.  
  3. In both condition 1 and 2 we should keep looking for a greater h-index.  

Considering the following example: 

The author has the following citations: `[0, 3, 4, 5, 5, 6]`.  There are 5 papers being cited for more than 3 times (condition 1), 4 papers being cited for more than 4 times (condition 3), and 3 papers being cited for more than 5 times (condition 2).  And 4, which is condition 3, is the h-index we want.  

So this analysis reduces the problem into a binary search problem: After sorting the `citations[]` into ascending order, we are looking for a position `x` in `citations[]` array where `x` satisfies that `citations[x] == citations.length - x` or the leftmost `x` that satisfies `citations[x] > citations.length - x`.  

Time complexity: `O(nlogn)` 

Space complexity: `O(1)`

```Java
class Solution {
    public int hIndex(int[] citations) {
        Arrays.sort(citations);
        int start = 0;
        int end = citations.length - 1;
        while (start <= end) {
            int mid = start + (end - start)/2;
            // Following line is the exact point we want
            // But this algorithm will find the leftmost mid that satisfies `citations[mid] >= citations.length - mid`
            // if (citations[mid] == citations.length - mid) return citations.length - mid;
            if (citations[mid] < citations.length - mid) {
                start = mid + 1;
            }
            else {// citations[mid] >= citations.length - mid
                end = mid - 1;
            }
        }
        return citations.length - start;
    }
}
```
