# Solution1: Sort the array

Straight forward solution. Sort the array to make all the same number aggregated together. Then scan the array to get the duplicate number. 

Time complexity: `O(nlogn)`

Space complexity: `O(1)`

```Java
class Solution {
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        Arrays.sort(nums);
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length - 1; i++) {
            if (nums[i] == nums[i + 1]) {
                return nums[i];
            }
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

# Solution2: HashSet

Straight forward solution, using a HashSet to keep the numbers we have encountered. Hence as soon as we find a new number that already exists in the HashSet, it is the duplicate one. 

Time complexity: `O(n)`

Space complexity: `O(1)`

```Java
class Solution {
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        Set<Integer> set = new HashSet<>();
        
        for (int i : nums) {
            if (set.contains(i)) {
                return i;
            }
            set.add(i);
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

# Solution3: Binary Search for range of numbers

However, the above 2 methods violates the question requirement. Since there is only 1 duplicate number in the array, we know that this ensures that for number range from `[i, j]`, there should be only `j - i + 1` numbers within this range exist in the array. This gives us the ability to search the range of numbers in a binary search style. And the judge condition should be how many numbers in the array are located in this current range. The algorithm can be described as following:

1. Start with the range `[start, end]`. Initialize with `start = 1, end = n`.  
2. Find the middle point `mid = start + (end - start) / 2` of the range.  
3. Count the number of numbers in `nums[]` array located witn in the current range `[start, mid]`.   
4. If `count <= (mid - start + 1)`, meaning that each number from `start` to `mid` at most shows up once in the array, then the duplicate number is in `[mid + 1, end]`. Go to step 2.  
5. Otherwise, the duplicate number is in `[start, mid]`. Go to step 2.   

Time complexity: `O(nlogn)` since each time we through away half of the range and each iteration takes `O(n)` time to check `nums[]` array for `count`. 

Space complexity: `O(1)`  

```Java
class Solution {
    /**
     * O(nlogn) time, O(1) space solution using binary search with range. 
     */
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        int start = 1;
        int end = nums.length - 1;
        while (start < end) {
            int mid = start + (end - start) / 2;
            int count = getCount(nums, start, mid);
            if (count <= (mid - start + 1)) {
                start = mid + 1;
            } else {
                end = mid;
            }
        }
        return start;
    }
    
    private int getCount(int[] nums, int start, int end) {
        int count = 0;
        for (int i : nums) {
            if (i >= start && i <= end) {
                count++;
            }
        }
        
        return count;
    }
}
```

# Solution4: 2 pointers cycle detection

If we interpret `nums[]` such that for each pair of index `i` and value `nums[i]`, the next value `nums[j]` is at index `nums[i]`, we can reduce the problem to cycle detection. 

First of all, based on the description of the problem, where there is an array `nums[]` of length `n + 1` in which the numbers are within the range `1 to n`, we are sure that there must exists a cycle. Because all numbers, whose are betwene 1 to n, point to an index in the array that exists. Therefore, the list can be iterated infinitely. Meanwhile, since there is no 0 in the array `nums[]`, we can start traversal form `nums[0]` and not return to it anymore. 

First of all, when traversing the array described in the problem by always using the current value as the next index to go to, there must be a loop. Let's say C is the length of the loop, which is smaller than the size of the array, aka `C < n + 1`. Before entering the loop, there are K steps to get from `nums[0]` to the beginning of the loop. Apparently, K is also smaller than the size of the array, aka `K < n + 1`.

Now let's see what's happening during the first loop. When Tortoise/Slow first reached the beginning of the loop, it moved K times; Meanwhile, Hare/Fast moved K times past the beginning of the loop, and is now somewhere in the loop. We could take note of Fast's current distance from the beginning of the loop, which is `(K % C)`. At this point, how many moves it would take for Fast to catch up with Slow within the loop? It would surely take less than C moves. In fact, with each move, Fast would shorten the gap of the two by one. We know Fast is `(K % C)` steps ahead of the start point of the loop, so the gap between the two is `(C - (K % C))`. This is to say, When Fast catches Slow, aka the first loop exits, Slow has moved `(C - (K % C))` steps past the beginning of the loop.

Time complexity of the first loop: Slow moved K times before the loop, and then less than one loop to be caught up. `O(K + C) = O(n)`.

And then we move to the second loop. Slow's position remains the same while Fast is reset to `nums[0]`. Also Fast now moves at the same speed as Slow does. If Fast and Slow were to meet, they should meet at the beginning of the loop. Now would they? Let's take a look. It would take Fast K moves to get to the beginning of the loop. Where would Slow be after K moves? It would be `(C - (K % C) + K)` steps past the beginning of the loop. Where the hell is that? Let's mod it with C: `(C - (K % C) + K) % C = (C % C) - ((K % C) % C) + (K % C) = 0 - (K % C) + (K % C) = 0`. So yes, after K moves, Slow is also at the beginning of the loop. Thus, it would take exactly K moves to exit the second loop, and we found the beginning of the loop.

Time complexity of the second loop: O(K) = O(n).

Overall, time complexity of the solution is `O(n)`.

```Java
class Solution {
    public int findDuplicate(int[] nums) {
        int quick = nums[0];
        int slow = nums[0];
        while (true) {
            quick = nums[nums[quick]];
            slow = nums[slow];
            if (quick == slow) {
                break;
            }
        }
        
        int pointer1 = nums[0];
        int pointer2 = slow;
        while (pointer1 != pointer2) {
            pointer1 = nums[pointer1];
            pointer2 = nums[pointer2];
        }
        
        return pointer1;
    }
}
```
