# Solution 1 Brute force recursive solution

The straight forward and simplest solution is to find all the increasing subsequence and return the length of the longest increasing subsequence. This can be achieved using a recursive function. This function will return the length of the LIS possible from current elements onwards(including current element). Inside each function call, there are 2 possible conditions:

1. Current element is greater than the previous element included in the LIS. In this case, we can either include the current element in the LIS or not include the current element in the LIS. Thus we find both length of the LIS. The value returned by the function call is, thus, the greater one out of the 2 lengths. 

2. Current element is smaller than the previous element included in the LIS. Hence we cannot include this element in the LIS. So we only find the length of the LIS possible by not including the current element, which is returned by the function call. 

Suppose the number the length of `n`. 

Time complexity: `O(2^n)`. Size of the recursion tree. 

Space complexity: `O(1)`. 

```
class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums) {
        return lengthOfLIS(nums, Integer.MIN_VALUE, 0);
    }
    
    private int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums, int prev, int pos) {
        if (pos == nums.length) {
            return 0;
        }
        int taken = 0;
        if (nums[pos] > prev) {
            taken = 1 + lengthOfLIS(nums, nums[pos], pos + 1);
        }
        int notTaken = lengthOfLIS(nums, prev, pos + 1);
        return Math.max(taken, notTaken);
    }
}
```
# Solution2 Memorized recursive solution

In the above solution, we are calling the `lengthOfLIS(nums, prev, pos)` with the same parameter again and again. This redundancy can be elimated by storing the result for a perticular call into a 2-d array `memo`. `memo[i][j]` represents the length of the LIS using `nums[i]` as the previous element, either included or excluded, with `nums[j]` as the current element, either included or excluded. 

Hence we have ther following solution. 

Time comlexity: `O(n^2)` where `n` is the length of the input array. Because we need to fill out the 2d `memo` array. 

Space complexity: `O(n^2)` because of the 2d `memo` array. 

```
class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums) {
        int[][] memo = new int[nums.length + 1][nums.length];
        for (int[] l : memo) {
            Arrays.fill(l, -1);
        }
        return lengthOfLIS(nums, -1, 0, memo);
    }
    
    private int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums, int prevIndex, int currIndex, int[][] memo) {
        if (currIndex == nums.length) {
            return 0;
        }
        if (memo[prevIndex + 1][currIndex] != -1) {
            return memo[prevIndex + 1][currIndex];
        }
        int taken = 0;
        if (prevIndex == -1 || nums[currIndex] > nums[prevIndex]) {
            taken = 1 + lengthOfLIS(nums, currIndex, currIndex + 1, memo);
        }
        int notTaken = lengthOfLIS(nums, prevIndex, currIndex + 1, memo);
        memo[prevIndex + 1][currIndex] = Math.max(taken, notTaken);
        return memo[prevIndex + 1][currIndex];
    }
}
```

# Solution3 Dynamic programming

However, the fact is that the longest increasing subsequence possible up to the `i`th index in the given array is only related to the elements previous to it. This can be proved by this argument: Suppose `nums[i+1] > nums[i]`. If length of possible LIS up to `i`th position is the max one, then the max length of LIS for `i+1`th position is always `1+max up to i`. Otherwise, if length of LIS up to `i`th position is not the max one of all the LIS, then `i+1`th position can always get a greater LIS length by choosing the max one up to `i` and plus 1 on it. Thus we should always choose the max value possible for each position. 

Hence there should be a way that we can solve this question based on iteration from the first element to the last element. In order to gind out the max length LIS for `i`th position, we need to try to append the current element to every possible inreasing subsequences up to `i-1`th position. So the relationship is like this:

Suppose `j` is in the range of `0<=j<i`.

1. If the current element is greater than `nums[j]`, then the current possible length of LIS is `1+possible length of LIS up to position j`.        
2. If the current element is smaller than `nums[j]`, then the current possible length of LIS is `1`. 

If we use a 1D array `dp` to store the possible length up to `i`th position (including `i`th position), then we have to try to append `i`th element to every possible LIS before `i`, i.e. from `0` to `i-1`, and find out the maximum. 

We have the following recursion equation: 

```
dp[i] = dp[j] + 1 if nums[i] > nums[j]
dp[i] = 1 if nums[i] < nums[j]
dp[i] = max of the above 2 possiblities. 
```

Suppose the input array has a length of `n`.      
Time complexity: `O(n)` time.      
Space complexity: `O(n)` space. 

```
class Solution {
    public int lengthOfLIS(int[] nums) {
        if (nums == null || nums.length == 0) {
            return 0;
        }
        int ret = 1;
        int[] dp = new int[nums.length];
        dp[0] = 1;
        for (int i = 1; i < nums.length; i++) {
            int max = Integer.MIN_VALUE;
            for (int j = 0; j < i; j++) {
                if (nums[i] > nums[j]) {
                    max = Math.max(dp[j] + 1, max);
                } else {
                    max = Math.max(1, max);
                }
            }
            dp[i] = max;
            ret = Math.max(dp[i], ret);
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
}
```
