# Solution1: Binary Search Tree

Since we want to find the smaller element to the right of each element in an array, it would be useful for us to remember the element of the array in some suitable data structure. Meanwhile, if we scan the array from left to right, we definitely need to look back afterwards. Hence scan from right to left seems to be a right strategy. However, one question still remains for us is that which data structure should we choose for remembering the numbers we have scanned?

Since we are looking for number of elements smaller than current element, a Binary Search Tree is appropriate if we add extra fields, `leftCount` and `dup`, in each node of it to record how many elements in it are less than or equal to the current element. And since we are scanning the array from right to left, we can simply add up the count of smaller numbers to the rigth of current number by adding up the duplicates and left counts in the tree that is less current number based on the feature of Binary Search Tree.   

And during the process of inserting current number into the BST from `root`, there are four conditions:   
1. If the current position we are considering is `null`, than insert the current number at current position.  
2. If the current position we are considering has a value equal to the current number, add one to the duplicate count of current node and record the number of elements less than current number in the return array.  
3. If the current position we are considering has a value less than current number, we should insert current number into the right subtree of current position. Meanwhile, we should add the `leftCount` and `dup` count into the current count of smaller elements to the right of current number.  
4. If the current position has a value greater than current number, we should insert the current number into the left subtree of current position. Meanwhile, we should not change the current count of smaller elements to the right of current number.  

Suppose there are `n` numbers in the input array, then:   
Time complexity: `O(log1 + log2 + ... + logn) = O(log(n!)) < O(log(n^n)) = O(nlogn)`  

Space complexity: `O(n)` for the BST. 

```Java
class Solution {
    class Node {
        int val;
        int leftCount;
        int dup;
        Node left;
        Node right;
        public Node (int val, int count, int dup) {
            this.val = val;
            this.leftCount = count;
            this.dup = dup;
        }
    }

    public List<Integer> countSmaller(int[] nums) {
        Node root = null;
        Integer[] ret = new Integer[nums.length];
        for (int i = nums.length - 1; i >= 0; i--) {
            root = insertIntoBST(root, nums[i], i, 0, ret);
        }
        
        return Arrays.asList(ret);
    }
    
    private Node insertIntoBST(Node root, int num, int index, int preSum, Integer[] ret) {
        if (root == null) { // no Node exists at this position yet, insert the current number here
            root = new Node(num, 0, 1);
            ret[index] = preSum;
        } else if (root.val == num) {
            root.dup++;
            ret[index] = preSum + root.leftCount;
        } else if (root.val > num) { // record this count into current root's left count
            root.leftCount++;
            root.left = insertIntoBST(root.left, num, index, preSum, ret);
        } else { // root.val < num, we need to add all numbers smaller than current root into current number's result
            root.right = insertIntoBST(root.right, num, index, preSum + root.dup + root.leftCount, ret);
        }
        return root;
    }
}
```
