# Solution1: Using stack to look back

First of all, we noticed that we do not need to know the actual string absolute path. The only thing we want to know is the length of the longest path. This means that we do not need to pay effort to construct the actual string, but rather only calculating the length on the fly. Meanwhile, considering that we are actually scanning the given string representation of file system in a DFS style, i.e. first exhaustively searching into the end of a directory until we encounter with a file, and then return to its parent directory, then continue this process. Hence we could use a stack to store the intermediate length, just in the DFS style. 

In order to determine the level of current directory, we will count the number of `"\t"` in front of the characters, based on the given specification. Two possible conditions are given as following:     
1. If we are considering a new level, we add the length of the corresponding path based on the previous level on the top of the stack and store it in the stack. Then if current path is a file name, indicated by its containing of `"."`, we update the max length if necessary. 
2. Otherwise, we pop any remaining lengths from the stack until the parent level of current level is on top of the stack.  

Time complexity: `O(n)` where `n` is the length of the input string.  

Space complexity: `O(n)` for the stack in the worst case. Worst case happens when the input contains the one and only one absolute path only. 
```Java
class Solution {
    public int lengthLongestPath(String input) {
        // split the input for easy processing
        String[] paths = input.split("\n"); // split based on \n
        Deque<Integer> deque = new ArrayDeque<>();
        deque.push(0);
        int ret = 0;
        
        for (String path : paths) {
            int level = path.lastIndexOf("\t") + 1;
            while (deque.size() > level + 1) deque.pop();
            int currLen = deque.peek() + path.length() - level + 1; // remove all \t and add /
            if (path.contains(".")) ret = Math.max(ret, currLen - 1); // if this is a file, calculate the length 
            deque.push(currLen);
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
}
```
