# Solution1: Scan row by row and count

This is a Greedy approach. Since we want to know how many times the given sentence can be fitted, we are actually looking for the __MAXIMUM__ time the given sentence can be fitted. Hance, we can try to put as many words in one line as possible, making up the greedy aporoach. In this process, we first try to put as many words in one line as possible and trim the tailing words that does not fit in that line as a whole, leaving all remaining positions in that line after trimming empty (as space). Then we continue filling next line by starting from the word after the last word in previous line. In this process we can make use of modulo operation to deal with the wrapping back issue for the sentence.   

Since there should be at least space between two words, we first add one space between each word and join the sentence. Remember to add one space after the last word as well.   

Then we consider each row sequentially. Using `start` to represent the number of characters we have put. For each row, we first try to put `cols` character from the joined sentence `s` into one line start from `start` (Maximum number of characters we can put into this line). Then we check the next position after the last position of this line. There are 2 conditions:   
1. If the next position is a space, then this line can fit all words we put in, we add one to `start` according to the implicit space in this case.    
2. If the next position is not space, we check for the current position. And we remove all characters that are not space until we meet one since this last word we just removed cannot be fit in this line. In this process, we subtract 1 from start during each character being removed.  

At last, the `start` represents the length of the repeated lines in which each word is separated by exactly one space. And since the joined sentence `s` has its words separated by 1 space as well, the number of repeats we can get is `start / s.length()`.  

Given there are `n` characters in `sentence[]`

Time complexity: `O(rows + n)`  

Space complexity: `O(n)` 

```Java
class Solution {
    public int wordsTyping(String[] sentence, int rows, int cols) {
        String s = String.join(" ", sentence) + " ";
        int start = 0, l = s.length();
        for (int i = 0; i < rows; i++) {
            start += cols;
            if (s.charAt(start % l) == ' ') {
                start++;
            } else {
                while (start > 0 && s.charAt((start - 1) % l) != ' ') {
                    start--;
                }
            }
        }
        
        return start / l;
    }
}
```

# Solution2: Dynamic programming

For each row on the screen, it must start with a word in the sentence. Thus there exists some overlapping subproblems here, which is when the given row starts with a specific word, how many words it can contains. And for those subproblems, we have optimal solutions for them, constitute of the optimal substructures in DP. Hence for this question, we can utilize dynamic programming to solve it. 

First, we construct `dp[]` array in which `dp[index]` means if a given row starts with word `sentence[index]`, then the next row must starts with word `sentence[dp[index]]`.  

Then for each row with a start index `k` (for first row it should be `0`) indicating the index of the first word in sentence, we count the number of words it contains based on the previous `dp[]` array. The next row should starts with `dp[k]`. We continue this process and count the number of words we can store in all rows. 

Then the answer should be `count / sentence.length`.  

Time complexity: `O(sentence.length + rows)`. 

Space complexity: `O(sentence.length)`  

```Java
class Solution {
    public int wordsTyping(String[] sentence, int rows, int cols) {
        int[] dp = new int[sentence.length];
        int l = sentence.length;
        for (int i = 0, prev = 0, len = 0; i < l; i++) {
            if (i != 0 && len > 0) len -= sentence[i - 1].length() + 1;
            while (len + sentence[prev % l].length() <= cols) {
                len += sentence[prev++ % l].length() + 1;
            }
            
            dp[i] = prev;
        }
        
        int count = 0;
        for (int i = 0, k = 0; i < rows; i++) {
            count += dp[k] - k;
            k = dp[k] % l;
        }
        
        return count / l;
    }
}
```
