# Solution1 Brute-force solution

This question asks for a so-called `Hamming Distance` of 2 numbers, which is essentially the number of bits that need to be flipped in order to get the binary of the other number from current one.

To compare the Hamming Distance of 2 numbers, a simple XOR operation between 2 numbers is enough. After the XOR, all 1s remaining are the bits we need to flip. Thus we can right shift the binary and count for the number of 1s.

Since it asks for of the total Hamming Distance between every unique pair of numbers in the nums array, we just loop through all of the number pairs in the nums and count for 1s in the XOR result. 

The time complexity of this algorithm is `O(n^2) * O(30)`, which is `C(n, 2) * 30`. 30 is the maximum binary length of th numbers. Space complexity is `O(1)`

```
class Solution {
    public int totalHammingDistance(int[] nums) {
        int ret = 0;
        for (int i = 0; i < nums.length; i++) {
            for (int j = i + 1; j < nums.length; j++) {
                ret += findDistance(nums[i], nums[j]);
            }
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
    
    private int findDistance(int i, int j) {
        int xor = i ^ j;
        int ret = 0;
        while (xor != 0) {
            ret += (xor & 1);
            xor = xor >> 1;
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
}
```

# Solution2 Loop over the bits

In the previous answer, we loop through the pairs of numbers, which lead to our algorithm runs in a lower bound `O(n^2)` times. However, considering that in every number has a maximum length of 30, we could iterate through the bits in the numbers, which immediately git rid of a dimension in our algorithm. 

So for every particular bit, we iterate through the numbers. Say there is n nnumbers, in which k numbers' value for this bit is 1, and (n-k) numbers' value for this bit is 0. Then the Hamming Distance is 1 for each such 1-0 pairs (one number with a bit of 1 and the other with a bit of 0). And we know that the number of such pairs for the above condition is `C(k, 1) * C(n-k, 1) = k * (n - k)`. 

For each of the `log2V` bits (suppose the maximum number is V), we calculate the total Hamming Distance using above method. And taking sum over all results can give us the final result. 

Time complexity `O(n) * O(logV) = O(n)`.
Space complexity `O(logV)` space. 
`n` is the length of the input array. V is the maximum number's value. 

Implementation showed as following:

```
class Solution {
    public int totalHammingDistance(int[] nums) {
        int ret = 0;
        int len = nums.length;
        int[] counts = new int[32];
        
        for (int num : nums) {
            int i = 0;
            while (num > 0) {
                counts[i] += num & 1;
                num = num >> 1;
                i++;
            }
        }
        
        for (int count : counts) {
            ret += count * (len - count);
        }
        
        return ret;
    }
}
```
