# Solution1: Pre-order traversal

We can flatten the tree into a string and ensure the relative sequence of the nodes, i.e. parent-child adjacency sequence, left-right sequence, by using preorder traversal. 

However, in order to reserve the ability to check subtree, we need to add two extra feature on top of a normal preorder traversal:  
1. Reserve the null nodes and differentiate between left null nodes and right null nodes, namely mark them as `lnull` and `rnull`.  
2. Add a mark for each node value so that a node value can be compared in a whole. E.g. node `1` would not be viewed as a subtree of node `21`. Here we use `#`. 

As a result we have the following algorithm.  
1. Preorder traverse the tree `s` and tree `t`, given we want to check whether tree `t` is a subtree of `s`.  
2. For each node:   
  1. If it is not null, put `# + node.val` in the traverse result.
  2. If it is null node on the left subtree of its parent, put `lnull` in the traverse result.  
  3. If it is null node on the right subtree of its parent, put `rnull` in the traverse result.  
3. Check whether String representation of `t` is  a substring of the String for `s`.  
  
## Time complexity

Assume there are `m` and `n` nodes in `s` and `t` respectively. Also assume that String concatenation takes `O(k)` time for String of length `k`. We are visiting each node once and perform String concatenation each time, which add up to `O(m^2+n^2)` time. Then we checked whether String `t` is a substring of `s`, which would take `O(m*n)` time in the worst case (of course we can do some optimization for the substring checking using linear time algorithms like KMP). 

Hence the total time is `O(m^2+n^2+m*n)`. 

## Space complexity

We are storing 2 strings of length `m` and `n` respectively. So it is `O(m+n)`. 

```java
/**
 * Definition for a binary tree node.
 * public class TreeNode {
 *     int val;
 *     TreeNode left;
 *     TreeNode right;
 *     TreeNode() {}
 *     TreeNode(int val) { this.val = val; }
 *     TreeNode(int val, TreeNode left, TreeNode right) {
 *         this.val = val;
 *         this.left = left;
 *         this.right = right;
 *     }
 * }
 */
class Solution {
    public boolean isSubtree(TreeNode s, TreeNode t) {
        if (s == null && t == null) return true;
        if (s == null || t == null) return false;
        
        String sStr = preorder(s, true);
        String tStr = preorder(t, true);
        
        return sStr.indexOf(tStr) >=0;
    }
    
    private String preorder(TreeNode n, boolean left) {
        if (n == null) {
            if (left) {
                return "lnull";
            } else {
                return "rnull";
            }
        }
        
        return "#" + n.val + " " + preorder(n.left, true) + " " + preorder(n.right, false);
    }
}
```
