# Analysis

Considering we want to check for existance of some words, a staight forward checking logic of this question would be to store every input word in dict into a HashSet. Then for every word we want to check, we generate every possible modification of the word and check for its existance in the HashSet. In this way, the checking process of HashSet is `O(1)` time. Suppose the length of the input word to be searched is `n`, then generating all of the possible modification of it takes `O(25n) = O(n)` time. Thus the total time complexity is `O(n)`. And space complexity would be `O(m)` where `m` is the number of words in the dict. 

However, this is not the most efficient solution we can get. Considering that we only want to know if a modified word exist or not and don't care about which character is modified, generate all possible word is unnecessary. 

We can just us a _wildcard_ to indicate current position could be any character and store this altered word. However, since we want every word except the original one, we have to store the original word as well. 

Thus the algorithm can be described as following:

1. For every word in input `dict`, we alter each character into `"*"` and store the altered words as well as the number of appearance of this altered words into the HashMap.   
2. For every word in input `dict`, we store the original word into a HashSet. 
3. For every input word to be searched, we replace each of each character into a `"*"`. Then we check for the existance of this word in the HashMap.   
  - If the HashMap shows a count greater than 1, that means current altered word is a match. (Since there is more than 1 appearance, either way we are guaranteed to have at least one word that staisfy our requirement.)   
  - If the HashMap contains a count equal to 1, then we check if the original word exists in the HashSet. If so, that means current word is in the dict and thus does not satisfy our requirement. Otherwist this is a match. 
  - If HashMap cannot found current altered word, then there is no match. 
  
The time complexity, in this way, is exactly `O(n)`. But the space complexity is `O(2m)` now since we use both a HashMap and HashSet to store input `dict`.

Another approach to achieve this is to use only 1 HashMap, but rather than store a wild card to indicate that character in this position can be changed, we store the `{original word without current character: [the index of the removed character, removed character]}` to identify the original word and altered word. E.g. For a input word `abc`, its HashMap looks like this: 

```
{
  "bc": [0, a],
  "ac": [1, b],
  "ab": [2, c],
}
```

This approach has a time complexity of `O(n)`, and space complexity of `O(m)`.

A Java implementation of the first approach is showed as following:

```
class MagicDictionary {
    Map<String, Integer> neighbors;
    Set<String> existed;
    
    /** Initialize your data structure here. */
    public MagicDictionary() {
        this.existed = new HashSet<String>();
        this.neighbors = new HashMap<String, Integer>();
    }
    
    /** Build a dictionary through a list of words */
    public void buildDict(String[] dict) {
        for (String word : dict) {
            this.existed.add(word);
            for (int i = 0; i < word.length(); i++) {
                String curr = word.substring(0, i) + "*" + word.substring(i + 1, word.length());
                if (!this.neighbors.containsKey(curr)) {
                    this.neighbors.put(curr, 0);
                }
                this.neighbors.put(curr, this.neighbors.get(curr) + 1);
            }
        }
    }
    
    /** Returns if there is any word in the trie that equals to the given word after modifying exactly one character */
    public boolean search(String word) {
        for (int i = 0; i < word.length(); i++) {
            String curr = word.substring(0, i) + "*" + word.substring(i + 1, word.length());
            if (this.neighbors.containsKey(curr)) {
                if (this.neighbors.get(curr) >= 2 || (this.neighbors.get(curr) == 1 && !this.existed.contains(word))) {
                    return true;
                }
            }
        }
        
        return false;
    }
}

/**
 * Your MagicDictionary object will be instantiated and called as such:
 * MagicDictionary obj = new MagicDictionary();
 * obj.buildDict(dict);
 * boolean param_2 = obj.search(word);
 */
```
