# Solution1: Binary Search Tree Inserting and Searching

## Overall intuition
Consider about the fact that we have 2 dimensions in the data - position `1` to `N` where the flowers will bloom and day `1` to `N` when the flowers will bloom. This basically gives us the approaches that we can make use of to iterate through the data. Hence we have 2 ways for iteration:  
1. Iterate through days from `1` to `N`. Each day we have flower at `flowers[i]` blooming, thus we need to check the blooming flower positions prior to and after this newly bloomed flower.  
2. Iterate  through positions from `1` to `N`. And for each position we have the date when the flower on this position will bloom. Hence we can check to make sure no flower should blooms in the k-empty slots bewteen `days[i+1]` and `days[i-k]`. We will discuss this method in details in __Solution2__. 

Since we have need to go to position `i` in order to know what are the positions that have flowers blooming until this day, we need to at least visit each positon in `flowers[]` array to check for the result. This gives us a lower bound of the algorithm running time -- `O(n)`. 

And during the checking of each position, we need to figure out a way to check the requirement for the flowers, which is, there should be `k` empty slots between 2 blooming flowers. Since for each day `i`, we are only adding a newly blooming flower at `flowers[i]`, we only need to check 2 positions relative to this newly added flower, the highest position that is lower than current position and the lowest position that is higher than current position. Considering of this fact, a suitable data structure, apprently, is a Binary Search Tree, which giving us the nice feature of checking a predecessor and postdecessor for a given number within `O(logn)` time.  

Hence we come up with the following algorithm:   
1. From day `1` to day `N`, add each flower to the corresponding position `flowers[i]` in a TreeSet, which is a Java Red Black Tree implementation.  
2. Each time a new flower is added, check the lowest higher position `high` and highest lower position `low` in the TreeMap.  
  1. If either of them satisfies the requirement, return this `day`.  
  2. Otherwise, continue the process.  

Time complexity: `O(N * 2logN) = O(NlogN)`  

Space complexity: `O(N)`  

```Java
class Solution {
    public int kEmptySlots(int[] flowers, int k) {
        TreeSet<Integer> bloomed = new TreeSet<>();
        int day = 0;
        for (; day < flowers.length; day++) {
            bloomed.add(flowers[day]);
            Integer low = bloomed.lower(flowers[day]);
            Integer high = bloomed.higher(flowers[day]);
            if ((low != null && flowers[day] - low - 1 == k) || (high != null && high - flowers[day] - 1 == k)) {
                return day + 1;
            }
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

# Solution2: Sliding window on blooming dates 

In the above discussion we mentioned that we can iterate based on the position of the flowers. Hence we need to construct a `days[]` array in which each `days[i]` stores blooming date for flower at position `i`. In this way we can use a sliding window of size `k + 2`, indexed by a start index `start` and an end index `end` to keep checking the `k` slots between the `start` and `end` of the window. And since there is `k` slots between `start` and `end` (because the window is of size `k + 2`), we know we have found a match as long all of the `k` slots between `start` and `end` bloom after both `days[start]` and `days[end]` (this is satisfied by the condition `days[i] > start] && days[i] > days[end]` = `!(days[i] < days[start] || days[i] < days[end])`). Otherwise, once we found a `i` between `start` and `end` which satisfies `days[i] < days[start] || days[i] < days[end]`, then we know a possible slot cannot start before `i`. Since all of the `days[j]` where `start < j < i` have satisfied the condition `days[j] > days[start] && days[j] > days[end]`, indicating that `days[j] > days[i]`. And this has violates our above discussion of a valid slots.    

Meanwhile, we also need to consider about how to move the window. Consider 2 sliding window indicated by `[start1, end1]` and `[start2, end2]`. If both of them are possible slots and they have the relationship: `start1 < start2 < end1 < end2`. Then we have the following reasoning:  
1. If `[start1, end1]` is a valid slot, then we have `days[start2] > days[end1]`.   
2. If `[start2, end2]` is a valid slot, then we have `days[start2] < days[end1]`.  
Apparently there is a confliction in the reasoning, hence we know 2 possible slots that satisfy the __k empty slot__ requirement cannot overlap with each other.    
Thus once we found a valid slot, we can move forward to a new slot starts with `end` of the current slot.  

Time complexity: `O(N)` since we are only checking each position once against the `start` and `end` index.  

Space complexity: `O(1)`  

```Java
class Solution {
    public int kEmptySlots(int[] flowers, int k) {
        // construct a `days[]` array storing the `days[position] = date` information
        int[] days = new int[flowers.length];
        for (int i = 0; i < flowers.length; i++) {
            days[flowers[i] - 1] = i + 1;
        }
        
        // slidiing window of length k + 2
        // we want to make sure all k flowers between start and end bloom later than both start and end.
        // if this requirement is satisfied, we know that Math.max(days[start], days[end]) is the date when
        // we got 2 flowers with k empty slots between them
        int ret = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        int start = 0;
        int end = k + 1;
        search : while (end < days.length) {
            for (int i = start + 1; i < end; i++) {
                if (days[i] < days[start] || days[i] < days[end]) {
                    // if any of the flowers blooms between days[start] and days[end]
                    start = i;
                    end = i + k + 1;
                    continue search;
                }
            }
            ret = Math.min(ret, Math.max(days[start], days[end]));
            start = end;
            end = start + k + 1;
        }
        
        return ret == Integer.MAX_VALUE ? -1 : ret;
    }
}
```
