# Solution Using deque to construct the path sequentially

## Unix system file system path

In a \*nix system, a file path can be described using a String starting with `/`, `~` or a folder name. `~` means current uset's `$HOME` directory. And `/` means a admin privilege system directory. And folder name means we go to the specific folder under current directory. Meanwhile, there are 2 other specifical characters: `.` and `..`. `.` means current directory, and `..` means the parent directory of current directory. 

## So how to simplify?

To simplify the file path means we want to go to the final directory specified by the path, that is, to go all the way along the input and find out where are we by returning the final directory we are in. 

Since we want to simplify this unix file system path, and the path can go either forward (when we encounter string other than `..`), or go backward (when we encounter string `..`), using a Stack would be suitable for this condition. 

1. When we need to go forward, we push the directory into the stack. 

2. When we need to go backward, we pop the top directory out of the stack, indicating that we go to the parent directory of current directory. 

3. When we encounter a `.`, we do nothing. Simply stay at current directory. 

## Pay attention to some edge cases

What if there is no more parent directories and we encounter a `..`? In this case, we should just stay in current directory without doing anything. 

What if there is multiple `/`? In this case we just treat it as one `/`. 

As a result, we have the following solution. 

Time complexity: `O(n)` where `n` is the number of directories, or steps, specificed in the input. 

Space complexity: `O(n)` for using the deque. 

```
class Solution {
    public String simplifyPath(String path) {
        String ret = "";
        String[] paths = path.split("/");
        Deque<String> deque = new ArrayDeque<>();
        for (String p : paths) {
            if (p.isEmpty() || (p.equals("..") && deque.isEmpty()) || p.equals(".")) {
                continue;
            }
            if (p.equals("..") && !deque.isEmpty()) {
                deque.pop();
            }  else {
                deque.push(p);
            }
        }
        while (!deque.isEmpty()) {
            ret = "/" + deque.pop() + ret;
        }
        
        if (ret.length() == 0) {
            return "/";
        } else {
            return ret;
        }
    }
}
```
