# Solution1: Bellman Ford's algorithm

To solve a shortest path problem from a single point to other points with in a directed or undirected graph, there exists a lot of algorithms, e.g. Breadth First Search, Bellman Ford's algorithm, Dijkstra's algorithm, etc. 

So we first attampt to solve it with Bellman Ford's algorithm (An detailed explanation to Bellman Ford's Algorithm in CN can be found [here](https://blog.csdn.net/Yaokai_AssultMaster/article/details/88642573)). Bellman Ford's algorithm could solve shortest path problem from a single vertex in a weighed graph in which the edges can have negative weights. However, we have one more constraints here --- we cannot go more for more than `K` intermediate nodes, that means `K+1` edges.  

Hence, on top of the original Bellman Ford algorithm, we first need to restricts the total number of iterations used for update the shortest path which should be, in this case, `K+1` iterations since we can pass at most `K+1` edges. 

Meanwhile, at iteration `i`, the original Bellman Ford's algorithm could have a minimum path stored of distance `i+1`. Since we are looking for path not exceeding `K+1` edges, we have to keep not 1, but two copy of distances. One for the current step `i`, another for the previous step `i-1`, to ensure that all new distances we calculated are at most `i` edges away from the source. Note here we used a two dimensional array `cost` with shape `2*n` for this purpose, in which we will use `cost[0]` and `cost[1]` as current distance and previous step distance alternatively. At the first step, we are using `cost[0]` as the current distance and `cost[1]` as previous cost.  

Another trick we used here is to use `INF = Integer.MAX_VALUE / 2` as the infinite distance used for algorithm initialization. This gives us the convenience of simply update the distance with `cost[curr][flight[1]] = Math.min(cost[curr][flight[1]], cost[pre][flight[0]] + flight[2]);` each time since we do not have to worry about int value overflow when adding a value to `Integer.MAX_VALUE`. And if a final calculated distance is less than `INF`, then it has been updated for sure. 

At the last step we just need to check the updated minimal cost of current iteration to return corresponding value. 

## Time complexity

`O(K*E)` where `K` is the stops allowed and `E` is the number of edges, i.e. flights connecting two cities. 

## Space complexity

`O(n)` where `n` is the total number of cities. 

```Java
class Solution {
    public int findCheapestPrice(int n, int[][] flights, int src, int dst, int K) {
        int[][] cost = new int[2][n];
        int INF = Integer.MAX_VALUE / 2;
        for (int i = 0; i < cost.length; i++) {
            Arrays.fill(cost[i], INF);
            cost[i][src] = 0;
        }
        
        for (int i = 0; i <= K; i++) {
            for (int[] flight : flights) {
                int curr = i & 1, pre = (~i) & 1;
                cost[curr][flight[1]] = Math.min(cost[curr][flight[1]], cost[pre][flight[0]] + flight[2]);
            }
        }
        
        return cost[K & 1][dst] < INF ? cost[K & 1][dst] : -1;
    }
}
```

# Solution2: Dijkstra's Algorithm

Similarly, we can make use of another shortest path algorithm for this question --- Dijkstra's algorithm. Dijkstra's algorithm, in essential, is a greedy algorithm. It starts with the same initialization process as Bellman Ford algorithm, that is, overestimating the distance from source to all other nodes, and then iteratively looking for the local shortest path and update the corresponding costs by applying that local shortest path to reach a new node at the end of that path. Hence anytime a new node is reached from source within Dijkstra's algorithm, it is the shortest path from source node to it. 

Meanwhile, one thing we need to keep in mind is that Dijkstra's algorithm does not keep track of the steps taken, either explicitly or implicitly, since it always takes the local shortest path and try to extend from it, without considering it's step length. Hence we need to explicitly store the steps taken for each existing path in the minimum heap used by Dijkstra's algorithm in our implementation. 

The algorithm can be described as following:   
1. Initlalize the algorithm with a minimum heap, in which we put `{src, 0, 0}` representing `{currentNode, currentCost, currentStep}` correspondingly. The minimum heap is sorted based on `currentCost`.   
2. Construct an adjacency list of adjacency matrix based on the input `flights`, aka, edges, for ease of later iteration.  
3. While the minimum heap is not empty, poll the top element from it and go to step 4. Otherwist, end the algorithm with return `-1` since no shortest path from `src` to `dst` is found.    
4. If the `currentStep` in the 3-tuple is greater than `K + 1`, then it has exceeded the limit of `K` stops (i.e. `K+1` edges/steps), we continue without further checking its edges and neighbors. If not, go to step 5.  
5. If `currentNode == dst`, then we return the `currentCost` since this is already the shortest cost from `src` to `dst`, since Dijkstra's algorithm always find the shortest path first. If not, go to step 6.  
6. For each edges (if exists) of `currentNode`, the path to its neighbor `i` should be `weight(currentNode, i) + currentCost`, the step should be `currentStep + 1`. And we will put this record `{i, weight(currentNode, i) + currentCost, currentStep + 1}` into the minimum heap.  

Note here in the code we also keep a `best` HashMap, it will contain the shortest paths from `src` to other nodes. But this is unnecessary in our solution.  

## Time complexity 

`O(E + ElogE)` in the worst case if we only found the shortest path from src to dst at last. Here `E` refers to the number of edges in the graph.  

## Space complexity

`O(E + N + N^2)`. `O(E)` for the minimum heap, `O(N^2)` for the adjacency list, `O(N)` for `best` (not necessary). Here `E` and `N` refers to the number of edges and nodes in the graph respectively. 

```java
class Solution {
    public int findCheapestPrice(int n, int[][] flights, int src, int dst, int K) {
        // minHeap stores 3-tuple, {node, cost, stepsUsed}
        PriorityQueue<int[]> minHeap = new PriorityQueue<>(new Comparator<int[]>() {
            @Override
            public int compare(int[] a1, int[] a2) {
                return a1[1] - a2[1];
            }
        });
        minHeap.offer(new int[]{src, 0, 0});
        Map<Integer, Map<Integer, Integer>> adjList = new HashMap<>();
        for (int[] flight : flights) {
            adjList.computeIfAbsent(flight[0], key -> new HashMap<Integer, Integer>()).put(flight[1], flight[2]);
        }
        
        // Can't constraints the steps here as we have done in Bellman Ford algorithm,
        // since the priority is sorted based on shortest path, so there is no guarantee how much steps
        // we have taken for the shortest path at the top of the heap
        // So we use a map to store the best results
        Map<Integer, Integer> best = new HashMap<>();
        while (!minHeap.isEmpty()) {
            int[] curr = minHeap.poll();
            int end = curr[0], cost = curr[1], step = curr[2];
            if (step > K + 1) continue;
            if (end == dst) return cost;
            if (adjList.containsKey(end)) {
                for (int u : adjList.get(end).keySet()) {
                    int nextCost = cost + adjList.get(end).get(u);
                    if (step <= K) {
                        minHeap.offer(new int[]{u, nextCost, step + 1});
                        best.put(u, Math.min(best.getOrDefault(u, Integer.MAX_VALUE), nextCost));
                    }
                }
            }
        }
        
        return -1;
    }
}
```

# Solution3: Depth First Search/BackTracking

As a shortest path searching problem, we could definitely using normal tree/graph traversal algorithms, i.e. DFS and BFS, for searching the shortest path. Here we could try to use DFS first.   

Considering there is a limitation for the stops we can take, we could at most go `K + 1` level deeper from the given root, which is `src`. 
Meanwhile, to avoid going into a loop, we need to keep a `visited` array marking whether the node has been visited or not in a Backtracking style. That is, we set the visited flag for a node to be `true` when we are visiting it's neighbors/subneighbors and we set it back to `false` when the recursion DFS function returns in order for other path to reuse this node later.  

We starts from setting current path cost to `0` and starts to recursively DFS from the `src`. For each of its neighbor, we try to append it to the route and reach further. To record the shortest path's length, we use an `int` value. Since `int` in Java is primitive value and is passed by value, we need to keep it as a instance variable in this case. If the node we are visiting is `dst`, then we should update the `res`. Note that we update directly in the `if (s == d)` case since we actually prune early in the `if (visited[next] || nextCost > res) continue;` line marked as important. Hence only steps that will shorten our path will be visited.  

## Time complexity  

In the worst case, if each node in the graph is fully connected with every other node int the graph, we need to visit each possible path. The total number of paths in this case is `N*(N-1))`. Also we need to take `O(N*(N-1))` time to construct the adjacency list in the worst case. Hence the total time complexity is `O(N^2)`. Here `N` refers to the total number of nodes in the graph.  

## Space conplexity 

`O(N^2)` for adjacency list. O`(N)` for the `visited` array. `O(N-1)` for the recursion stack in the worst case. Hence `O(N^2)`. Here `N` refers to the number of nodes in the graph.  

```java
class Solution {
    int res;
    public int findCheapestPrice(int n, int[][] flights, int src, int dst, int K) {
        Map<Integer, Map<Integer, Integer>> adjList = new HashMap<>();
        for (int[] flight : flights) {
            adjList.computeIfAbsent(flight[0], k -> new HashMap<>()).put(flight[1], flight[2]);
        }
        
        boolean[] visited = new boolean[n];
        res = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        dfs(src, dst, K + 1, adjList, 0, visited);
        return res == Integer.MAX_VALUE ? -1 : res;
    }
    
    private void dfs(int s, int d, int k, Map<Integer, Map<Integer, Integer>> adjList, int currCost, boolean[] visited) {
        if (s == d) {
            res = currCost; // update directly 
            return;
        }
        if (k == 0) return;
        visited[s] = true;
        if (adjList.containsKey(s)) {
            for (int next : adjList.get(s).keySet()) {
                int nextCost = currCost + adjList.get(s).get(next);
                if (visited[next] || nextCost > res) continue; // important 
                dfs(next, d, k - 1, adjList, nextCost, visited);
            }
        }
        visited[s] = false;
    }
}
```

# Solution4: Breadth First Search  

BFS is one of the most common and classical algorithm for searching shortest path. One thing that is different in this problem is that we are actually still performing the level-by-level search, but are not sure the path we currently have is the shortest path because each edge has different weights. So in addition to performing a level-by-level traversal, we need to record the number of levels we have went through to make sure we comply with the `K` stop limit, and update the cost of the shortest path if we encounter the `dst` node during traversal. In each level, we will take out the `{nodes, currentCost}` 2-tuple out of the queue in a FIFO style and checks its neighbor to generate the 2-tuple for next level. 

Meanwhile, we also stop early to save time when we arrived at a path of which the cost is greater than our current minimum cost to `dst` stored in `res`, since in this case there is no way for us to find a shortest path anyway. Finally, when we used up all our steps we break the loop and return. 

## Time complexity  

Worst case we need to check `O(N^2)` possible paths. So `O(N^2)` runtime. Here `N` stands for the number of nodes.   

## Space complexity  

Worst case when all nodes are of the same level the `queue` could be as large as `O(N)`. And `O(N^2)` for the adjacency list. Thus `O(N^2)` space. `N` stands for the number of nodes.  

```java
class Solution {
    public int findCheapestPrice(int n, int[][] flights, int src, int dst, int K) {
        Map<Integer, Map<Integer, Integer>> adjList = new HashMap<>();
        for (int[] flight : flights) {
            adjList.computeIfAbsent(flight[0], k -> new HashMap<>()).put(flight[1], flight[2]);
        }
        Deque<int[]> queue = new ArrayDeque<>();
        queue.offer(new int[]{src, 0});
        int res = Integer.MAX_VALUE;
        int step = 0;
        
        while (!queue.isEmpty()) {
            int levelSize = queue.size();
            for (int i = 0; i < levelSize; i++) {
                int[] curr = queue.poll();
                if (adjList.containsKey(curr[0])) {
                    for (int next : adjList.get(curr[0]).keySet()) {
                        int nextCost = curr[1] + adjList.get(curr[0]).get(next);
                        if (nextCost > res) continue;
                        if (next == dst) {
                            res = Math.min(res, nextCost);
                        }
                        queue.offer(new int[]{next, nextCost});
                    }
                }
            }
            if (++step > K) break;
        }
        
        return res == Integer.MAX_VALUE ? -1 : res;
    }
}
```
