# Solution1: Taxicab distance comparison

THe intuition here is that in order for us to get to the target before being caught by a ghost, we need to arrive at the target quicker than any ghost. And the fastest route from a start position to some target in the Cartesian cordinate system is the taxicab distance. 

Hence we can simply compare the taxicab distance from our start point to the target with the taxicab distance from every ghost to the target. The result is true iff the taxicab distance from our start point is the smallest.  

Some may argue that a ghost may approach us directly without go to the target. Suppose that there is some middle point `X`, between our start point `S`, a ghost's start point `G`, and the target `T`, at which the ghost want to carch us enroute. Then based on the triangle inequaility equation, `distance(S, T) <= distance(S, X) + distance(X, T)` and `distance(G, T) <= distance(G, X) + distance(X, T)`. Thus in order for the ghost to catch us at `X`, the ghost need to be at least no farther to `X` than us`, and moreover, no farther to target than us. As a result, it is at least as good for the ghost to go directly to the target then reach us in our shortest route than intercept us enroute.  

Thus, our previous algorithm should give us the correct result.  

Time complexity: `O(n)` where `n` is the number of ghosts.  

Space complexity: `O(1)`  

```Java
class Solution {
    public boolean escapeGhosts(int[][] ghosts, int[] target) {
        if (ghosts == null || ghosts.length == 0) return true;
        
        int[] start = new int[]{0, 0};
        int steps = taxicabDistance(start, target);
        
        for (int[] ghost : ghosts) {
            if (taxicabDistance(ghost, target) <= steps) {
                return false;
            }
        }
        
        return true;
    }
    
    private int taxicabDistance(int[] start, int[] end) {
        // The taxicab distance between 2 points in Cartesian cordinate system is
        // the sum of absolute difference between their x and y cordinates. 
        return Math.abs(start[0] - end[0]) + Math.abs(start[1] - end[1]);
    }
}
```
