# Solution1: Custmoized comparator

The requirement is quite straightforward. We just need to sort the letter logs and append all the digit logs behind in its original order.

So we first split the input logs into two parts, one for letter logs, one for digit logs. Then we sort the letter logs as required. The sorting strategy is:   
1. First we compare the part after the identifier lexicographically.  
2. If it is the same, then we compare the identifier. 

```java
class Solution {
    public String[] reorderLogFiles(String[] logs) {
        if (logs == null || logs.length == 0) return logs;
        
        List<String> letterLogs = new ArrayList<>();
        List<String> digitLogs = new ArrayList<>();
        for (String log: logs) {
            if (isLetterLog(log)) {
                letterLogs.add(log);
            } else {
                digitLogs.add(log);
            }
        }
        
        Collections.sort(letterLogs, (a, b) -> {
            String[] s1 = a.split(" ", 2);
            String[] s2 = b.split(" ", 2);

            int cmp = s1[1].compareTo(s2[1]);
            if (cmp == 0) {
                cmp = s1[0].compareTo(s2[0]);
            }
            return cmp;
        });
        
        letterLogs.addAll(digitLogs);
        return letterLogs.toArray(new String[0]);
    }
    
    private boolean isLetterLog(String log) {
        char c = log.split(" ")[1].charAt(0);
        if (Character.isLetter(c)) {
            return true;
        }
        return false;
    }
}
```

## Time complexity

Assume the length of the input `logs` array is `n`, then we need to do `O(nlogn)` comparisons. Since each comparison, based on our custom comparator implementation, can take up to `O(m)` time where `m` is the length of the log string, the total run time complexity for sorting is `O(m*nlogn)`. We also iterated the input array once to filter the letter logs and digit logs, which takes `O(n)` time. So the total time complexity is `O(n+m*nlogn) = O(m*nlogn)`.  

# Space complexity

Since the java sorting uses a Quick-sort style sorting algorithm which requires `O(logn)` space given each element takes `O(1)` time and the String we sort is `O(m)` in size, the total space complexity is `O(m*logn)`.  

# Solution2: Monolithic comparator

Since Java sorting algorithm, which is quick-sort, is a stable sorting algorim that keeps the relative order of elements from the original array if they are equal, we can implement a monolithic comparator that compares the whole log string, including identifier and content, together. The comparison rule is as following:  
1. Digit log is greater than letter log. 
2. Digit logs are the same as each other (and due to the stability of the sorting algorithm, the relative order of digit logs are automatically preserved).  
3. For 2 letter logs, we first compare their content, then compare their identifier.  

```java

```
